[blog] Add blog post about company retreat in Tenerife 🏝 (#33566)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/blog/2022-tenerife-retreat.md

---
title: MUI's company retreat in Tenerife: a recap
description: Our internationally distributed startup gathered on a remote island to get to know each other better. Here's what happened!
date: 2022-07-28T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['samuelsycamore']
card: false
tags: ['Company']
---

One of the toughest challenges to overcome as a fully remote team is fostering a supportive and inclusive company culture.
How do you build trust, comradery, and—dare I say it?—_friendships_, when there are so few opportunities for spontaneous social interactions in our daily work routines?

At MUI, we've chosen to prioritize in-person company retreats as a way to grow together and cultivate the culture that informs how we operate.

![Photo of the MUI team in front of the pool at our accommodations in Tenerife](/static/blog/2022-tenerife-retreat/group-photo.jpeg)

<p class="blog-description">The MUI team poses next to the pool during the company retreat.</p>

In late June 2022, sixteen of us gathered at a remote private residence on the island of Tenerife.
This was MUI's second company retreat, the first being in Portugal in 2021 when the team was just a fraction of the size it is today.

> We had a ton of fun getting to know each other better over oceanic activities, poolside conversations, and incredible catered meals—not to mention a steady supply of Spanish wine. 🥂

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We had a ton of fun getting to know each other better over oceanic activities, poolside conversations, and incredible catered meals—not to mention a steady supply of local wine. 🥂
```
Not sure what we had at the restaurants, but the wine I bought for the last day/night was all from Tenerife. (Which of course makes it Spanish, but local sounds better. 😄 )

Oh, and I guess we got some work done along the way, too? 😅

## Destination

![Satellite image of Tenerife](/static/blog/2022-tenerife-retreat/tenerife.jpeg)

<p class="blog-description">Satellite photo of Tenerife, via <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenerife">Wikipedia</a>.</p>

> Tenerife is a volcanic island off the coast of western Africa that's part of the Canary Islands (Spanish: _Canarias_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tenerife is a volcanic island off the coast of western Africa that's part of the (Spanish) Canary Islands (_Canarias_ in Spanish).
```

It is the most populous island in the archipelago, and one of the most visited tourist destinations in the world.

> Its central defining feature is Mount Teide, the third largest volcano in the world when measured from its base, which rises 7,500 m (24,600 ft) from the bottom of the ocean floor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its central defining feature is Mount Teide, the third largest volcano in the world when measured from its base, which rises 7,500 m (24,600 ft) from the bottom of the ocean floor, and 3,715m (12,188 ft) above sea level.
```

With an average temperature ranging from about 18-25 °C (68-77 °F) year-round, it's hard to pick a bad time to visit!

> ## Accommodations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accommodation
```

## Activities

Throughout our stay in Tenerife, we arranged group activities to make the most of what the island has to offer.

### Whale and dolphin watching

![Danail from the MUI X team snaps a selfie on the bow of the whale-watching boat, with coworkers in the background.](/static/blog/2022-tenerife-retreat/whale-watching-danail.jpeg)

<p class="blog-description">Danail snaps a selfie on the whale-watching boat.</p>

Our first full day together saw us venture out into the Atlantic Ocean in search of dolphins and whales.

The waters surrounding the Canary Islands are a biodiversity hotspot, and feeding grounds for many different species of marine mammals.
We spotted several [pilot whales](https://whalewatchtenerife.org/pilot-whales/) and what I believe were [bottlenose dolphins](https://whalewatchtenerife.org/bottlenose-dolphin/), though I'll be the first to admit that I'm no expert. 😅

Several of us (myself included) made a critical mistake by skipping the sunscreen because it was a cloudy day.
We got burned to a crisp!
And on the first day of the retreat, no less! 😭
Don't be like us.
Wear sunscreen.

### Scuba diving lessons

> ![Members of the MUI team pose in front of the diving school in their scuba gear.](/static/blog/2022-tenerife-retreat/scuba-gear.jpeg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![MUI team members and their diving instructors pose in scuba gear before a successful scuba diving lesson.](/static/blog/2022-tenerife-retreat/scuba-gear.jpeg)
```

> <p class="blog-description">MUI team members pose in scuba gear after a successful diving lesson.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="blog-description">MUI team members and their diving instructors pose in scuba gear before a successful scuba diving lesson.</p>
```
